---
layout: post
title: Sound of final ㅅ
draft: true
---

ㅅ can be confusing to beginners. Sometimes it's pronounced like *t*, sometimes like *s*, and sometimes it's not pronounced at all! Why is it so messed up, and what are the rationale behind it? That's what I'm going to explain in this post.

### Why is ㅅ pronounced like *t*?

ㅅ was not always like this. In the book of *Hunminjeongeum*(1443) it states:

> 終聲復用初聲 
> *The initial sounds are used again for the final sounds.*

Also the explanation for this decision:

> 終聲之復用初聲者 以其動而陽者乾也 靜而陰者亦乾也 乾實分陰陽而無不君宰也
> *The reason for using the initial sounds again for the final sounds is that what is active *yang* is the consonants, and what is inactive *yin* are also the consonants. Even if, in reality, it is divided into *yin* and *yang*, there is nothing that it doesn't govern over.*

Confusing huh? Simply said, the initals(*yang*) and the finals(*yin*) are both consonants, so they shouldn't be having separate letters.

Also in the later part of the book:

> 然ㄱㆁㄷㄴㅂㅁㅅㄹ八字可足用也
> *However (in the finals), only eight of these characters "ㄱ, ㆁ, ㄷ, ㄴ, ㅂ, ㅁ, ㅅ, ㄹ" are enough.*

If all consonant letters are allowed in the final position, then why does the book say only eight of them is enough? It's probably because all of the other letters, in the final position, get replaced to these eight when they're pronounced. This happens in Modern Korean too.

> 꽃 [꼳] *flower*
> 부엌 [부억] *kitchen*
> 옷 [옫] *clothes*

Look how ㅊ, ㅋ, ㅅ endings got replaced with ㄷ, ㄱ, and ㄷ when pronounced? In Modern Korean, every consonant letter becomes one of "ㄱ, ㄴ, ㄷ, ㄹ, ㅁ, ㅂ, ㅇ" in the final position. This was the same for Middle Korean, except one thing. Notice how there's a ㅅ in up there? In Middle Korean, ㅅ didn't get replaced with ㄷ, even in the final position. Instead it retained its own sound /s/. So 옷 must have been pronounced as [os] instead of the modern [ot̚]. (the little mark above *t* is indicates an [unreleased stop](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/No_audible_release).)

<div style="column-count: 2;">

####Before 16C, 8-final System
|Delegate|Underlying Finals|
|-|-|
|ㄱ|ㄱㅋ|
|ㄴ|ㄴ|
|ㄷ|ㄷㅌ|
|ㄹ|ㄹ|
|ㅁ|ㅁ|
|ㅂ|ㅂㅸㅍ|
|ㅅ|ㅅㅿㅈㅊ|
|ㆁ|ㆁ|

####Modern 7-final System
|Delegate|Underlying Finals|
|-|-|
|ㄱ|ㄱㅋ|
|ㄴ|ㄴ|
|ㄷ|ㄷㅌㅅㅈㅊ|
|ㄹ|ㄹ|
|ㅁ|ㅁ|
|ㅂ|ㅂㅍ|
|ㅇ|ㅇ|

</div>

Then, in the early 16th century, final ㅅ merged with ㄷ, making the modern 7-final system we have today. But in orthography, ㄷ merged to ㅅ, not the other way around. For centuries, final ㄷ sound was written with a ㅅ. We can see this in a 17th century Hangul text:

