---
layout: post
title: How to transliterate to Hangul, Part 2 - English specific rules
---

Starting off from the [last post](/blog/Trans1/), in this post I introduce the English-specifc standard for transliterating to Hangul. The general rules are not nearly enough to transliterate English consistently, it's just there to provide a guideline to all the specific rules for languages. So here are the rules for transliterating English to Hangul:

### 1. Voiceless Plosives /p/, /t/, /k/

#### (1) Voiceless plosives following a short vowel at the end of a word shall be written as a *batchim*.

> gap /gæp/ 갭<br>
> cat /kæt/ 캣<br>
> book /bʊk/ 북

#### (2) Voiceless plosives between consonants excluding short vowels, liquids, and nasals(/l/, /r/, /m/, /n/) shall be written as a *batchim*.

> apt /æpt/ 앱트<br>
> setback /setbæk/ 셋백<br>
> act /ækt/ 액트

This is because these consonants are usually pronounced with [no audible release](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/No_audible_release) in English.

#### (3) Everywhere else, voiceless plosives at the end of a word or in front of a consonant shall be written with '으' attached.

> stamp /stæmp/ 스탬프<br>
> part /pαːt/ 파트<br>
> apple /æpl/ 애플

### 2. Voiced Plosives /b/, /d/, /g/

#### Every voiced plosive shall be written with '으' attached.

> bulb /bʌlb/ 벌브<br>
> land /lænd/ 랜드<br>
> zigzag /zɪgzæg/ 지그재그

### 3. Fricatives /s/, /z/, /f/, /v/, /θ/, /ð/, /ʃ/, /ʒ/

#### (1) /s/, /z/, /f/, /v/, /θ/, /ð/ at the end of a word or in front of a consonant shall be written with '으' attached.

> mask /mαːsk/ 마스크<br>
> jazz /dʒæz/ 재즈<br>
> graph /græf/ 그래프<br>
> thrill /θrɪl/ 스릴<br>
> bathe /beɪð/ 베이드<br>
> olive /ɔlɪv/ 올리브

You'll see the phrase "at the end of a word or in front of a consonant" a lot. It usually means it's the last consonant in a syllable.

#### (2) Word-final /ʃ/ is written as '시', /ʃ/ following a consonant is written as '슈', and /ʃ/ before vowels are written as '샤', '섀', '셔', '셰', '쇼', '슈', '시', depending on the vowel following it.

> flash /flæʃ/ 플래시<br>
> shrub /ʃrʌb/ 슈러브<br>
> shark /ʃαːk/ 샤크<br>
> sheriff /ʃerɪf/ 셰리프

#### (3) /ʒ/ at the end of a word or in front of a consonant shall be written as '지', and /ʒ/ before a vowel is written as 'ㅈ'.

> mirage /mɪrɑʒ/ 미라지<br>
> vision /vɪʒən/ 비전<br>

### 4. Affricates /ts/, /dz/, /tʃ/, /dʒ/

#### (1) /ts/ and /dz/ at the end of a word of in front of a consonant shall be written as '츠' and '즈' respectively, and /tʃ/ and /dʒ/ are written as '치' and '지' respectively.

> odds /ɔdz/ 오즈<br>
> switch /swɪtʃ/ 스위치<br>
> Pittsburgh /pɪtsbəːg/ 피츠버그

#### (2) /tʃ/, /dʒ/ in front of a consonant shall be written as 'ㅊ' and 'ㅈ' respectively.

> chart /tʃαːt/ 차트<br>
> virgin /vəːdʒɪn/ 버진<br>
> jewelry /dʒuəlri/ 주얼리

This is where many natives make mistakes. Since Korean ㅊ /tɕʰ/ and ㅈ /tɕ/ are always palatalized, /tɕj/ and /tɕ/ are not distinguished, so they incorrectly write 'jewelry' as '쥬얼리'.

### 5. Nasals /m/, /n/, /ŋ/

#### (1) Nasals at the end of a word and in front of a consonant shall be written as a *batchim*.

> steam /stiːm/ 스팀<br>
> lamp /læmp/ 램프<br>
> ink /ɪŋk/ 잉크

#### (2) /ŋ/ between two vowels shall be written as a *batchim* 'ㅇ' in the first syllable.

> hanging /hæŋɪŋ/ 행잉<br>
> longing /lɔŋɪŋ/ 롱잉

This is because initial ㅇ is a null sound.

### 6. Liquids /l/

#### (1) /l/ at the end of a word or in front of a consonant shall be written as a *batchim*.

> hotel /hoʊtel/ 호텔<br>
> pulp /pʌlp/ 펄프

#### (2) Mid-word /l/, in front of a vowel or in front of nasals that does not have any vowels following, shall be written as 'ㄹㄹ'. However, /l/ after /m/ and /n/ shall be written as 'ㄹ' even if it has a following vowel.

> slide /slaɪd/ 슬라이드<br>
> film /fɪlm/ 필름<br>
> Hamlet /hæmlɪt/ 햄릿

### 7. Long vowels

#### Longness of vowels shall not be marked separately.

> team /tiːm/ 팀<br>
> route /ruːt/ 루트

### 8. Diphthongs

#### Diphthongs shall be written preserving the sound values of each vowel that the diphthong consists of, but /oʊ/ shall be written as '오', and /auə/ as '아워'.

> time /taɪm/ 타임<br>
> skate /skeɪt/ 스케이트<br>
> boat /boʊt/ 보트<br>
> tower /tauə/ 타워

### 9. Semivowels /w/, /j/

#### (1) /wə/, /wɔ/, /woʊ/ shall be written as '워', /wα/ as '와', /wæ/ as '왜', /we/ as '웨', /wɪ/ and /wi/ as '위', and /wʊ/ as '우'.

> word /wəːd/ 워드<br>
> want /wɔnt/ 원트<br>
> witch /wɪtʃ/ 위치<br>
> woe /woʊ/ 워

#### (2) /w/ after consonants shall be split into two syllables, but /gw/, /hw/, and /kw/ shall be one.

> swing /swɪŋ/ 스윙<br>
> penguin /peŋgwin/ 펭귄<br>

#### (3) /j/ shall written combined with the following vowel, as '야', '얘', '여', '예', '요', '유', '이'. However, /jə/ following /d/, /l/, and /n/ shall be '디어', '리어', and '니어' respectively.

> yard /jαːd/ 야드<br>
> yank /jæŋk/ 얭크<br>
> union /juːnjən/ 유니언<br>
> yellow /jeloʊ/ 옐로

### 10. Compound words

#### (1) Compound words that consists of word than can be used seperately shall be written as if they were separate words.

> bookend /bʊkend/ 북엔드, \*부켄드(X) <br>
> flashgun /flæʃgʌn/ 플래시건, \*플래슈건(X) <br>
> sit-in /sitin/ 싯인, \*시틴(X)

This is the only place where mid-word null ㅇ following a consonant is allowed.

#### (2) For words that have a space in English, the space is optional in Hangul.

> Los Alamos /lɔs.æləmoʊs/ 로스 앨러모스/로스앨러모스 <br>
> top class /tɔp.klæs/ 톱 클래스/톱클래스

This ends the rules.
