---
layout: post
title: How to transliterate to Hangul, Part 1
draft: true
---

In this post I'm going to introduce the standard way of transliterating English words into Hangul. The current standard(외래어 표기법) was made by the National Institute of the Korean Language of South Korea  in 1986, and is still used to this day without any changes.

## General Rules

First, here are the big rules that apply to every language:

> 1) Foreign words shall be written using only with the 24 jamos that are currently in use.

This means you shouldn't invent new letters to write foreign sounds, nor incorporate obsolete ones. Pretty straightforward.

> 2) One foreign phoneme shall be written with only one symbol.

This one is a little difficult without background in linguistics. Here's my explanation: A [phoneme](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phoneme) is a fundamental sound unit in a language. For example, ㅅ(or /s/ in IPA) is a phoneme in Korean. But ㅅ is &#91;sʰ&#93; in '사' and &#91;ɕʰ&#93; in '시', so isn't it two phonemes? No. Both &#91;sʰ&#93; of '사' and &#91;ɕʰ&#93; of '시' are [allophones](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Allophone) of the same phoneme /s/ (AKA 'ㅅ') in the Korean Language. 

Similarly, English /p/ is aspirated in the word 'pin', but unaspirated in 'spin'. But the two &#91;pʰ&#93; and [p] aren't distinguished in English, thus a same phoneme. We can prove this by showing that there's no minimal pair that distinguishes between the two versions of /p/. But Koreans perceive them differently (as ㅍ and ㅃ respectively); so which language's phonology system should Hangul transliteration reflect? And the standard states that it should follow the original language(in this case English)'s system, so that both /p/'s are written in the same letter in Hangul (In this case 핀 *pin* and 스핀 *spin*, not 스삔).

 This may seem somewhat counterintuitive, since it's the Korean people who'll be using the transliteration, so reflecting the Korean Language's phonology system can better preserve the sounds in the original language. But there are very good reasons for doing not so. First of all, allophones can vastly differ between dialects and age group. For instance, in America, most people pronounce the 'tt' in the word 'butter' as &#91;r&#93;, but in Britain, they pronounce it like &#91;t&#93;. But then, some Americans also pronounce the same word with &#91;t&#93; when they want to sound formal. So if we follow the Korean phonology system, we can't decide what to choose between 버러 and 버터. But considering that both sounds are just allophones of the phoneme /t/ in English, following the English phonology system gives only 버터. So that simplifies the huge need to specify what region and what age group's speech in the original language we'll reflect in our transliteration.
 
 > 3) Only ‘ㄱ, ㄴ, ㄹ, ㅁ, ㅂ, ㅅ, ㅇ’ shall be used in the *batchim*(final position).
 
 This is the part where many learners make mistakes. This rule states any consonant other than 'ㄱ, ㄴ, ㄹ, ㅁ, ㅂ, ㅅ, and ㅇ' are forbidden to be used as a *batchim* for transliterating foreign words. For example, many people write 'shop' as 샾. This is incorrect; 샵 is the correct one following the standard. There are reasons behind this too.
 
 The coda reduction rules in the *Standard Pronunciation*(표준 발음법) state that all consonants in the *batchim* are reduced into one of these seven: "ㄱ, ㄴ, ㄷ, ㄹ, ㅁ, ㅂ, ㅇ". And since the two rulesets (표준 발음법 and 외래어 표기법) are two subsets of the Standard Korean Language(표준어), they must be compatible to each other. So according to the *Standard Pronunciation*, 샾 should be pronounced exactly the same as 샵, which is in real life too. So there's no reason to write 샾 instead of 샵. Moreover, if you write 샾 instead of 샵, you should pronounce 샾이 (샾 + the subject marker 이) as &#91;샤피&#93; which no native speaker does, instead they always say &#91;샤비&#93; regardless of how it's spelt. So if they standardize the 샾 spelling, they had to amend the *Standard Pronunciation* to make foreign words an exception. Thus they saw no point in writing the *batchim*s in other non-major consonants.
 
 > 4) Tense consonant letters shall be not used in writing of plosive consonants.
 
 This rule is an extension of the second rule; But it does not apply to languages which also has a three-way stop distinction like Korean, such as Thai and Vietnamese.
 
 > 5) Foreign words that are already soild in its form in Hangul is respected, but its range of usage shall be specified separately.
 
 This is the most important rule that overpowers all the other rules above; If a certain form in Hangul was widely used for a long time, we do not change it according to the new standard, instead we keep it. That's why names like 'Rio de Janeiro' are not written '히우지자네이루'.

Coming up: English-specific rules (incomplete)
